Let's see this in action.
Let's talk about integration testing.
Navigate to the LocationControllerintegrationTest.java file,
and let's take a look at it.
Here on line 20,
you've seen the @RunWith annotation before.
What's new with an integration test is line 21.
The @SpringBootTest annotation.
So this is mainly used for integration testing.
Notice the use of this web environment random port here.
This starts the server with a random port and this is very
useful to avoid conflicts in a test environment.
Here on line 22,
I'm injecting springs Mock MVC by using the AutoConfigureMockMVC annotation.
This annotation simulates calling the code from the client exactly the same way as if we
were processing a real HTTP request, let's scroll down.
Notice here we're using the TestRestTemplate.
So Spring Boot provides this automatically,
all I have to do is autowire it using this annotation.
Now the TestRestTemplate is suitable for integration tests and allows us
to consume REST APIs in a testing scenario programmatically.
So let's take a look at that.
Here on line 31,
we have our first test.
It's called getAllLocations.
Notice I've annotated it with the @Test annotation.
We've seen this before.
Now, here notice I'm using the getForEntity of the restTemplate,
and this is going to make a get call on this URL here.
So to this API,
and the response is going to be returned and stored in this response object.
Notice here on line 35,
I'm asserting that the response code equals to a response of okay.
So that means there were no errors.
So let's see this in action.
Click the green button, click run getAllLocations.
We should see the output in a moment,
and we have one test here.
We see the green check mark saying the test passed.
So let's look at this getLocation test.
It follows the same model, but in this case,
we're calling out to the API to retrieve
one single location and we're passing in this one here.
We're taking the response entity.
We're testing the status code to make sure it equals to HTTP status of okay.
So let's see this in action.
Here we have a test pass with a green check mark.
So that's a look at integration testing.